## What is an IT file?

IT file format is related to the Impulse Tracker software, which was a popular music tracker program developed by Jeffrey Lim in the mid-1990s. IT files are module files that contain musical patterns, sample data, instrument settings and other sequencing information.

The IT file format is a binary format, known for its flexibility and efficiency in representing complex musical compositions. It supports up to 64 channels permitting various effects such as panning, volume slides, vibrato and more, supporting multiple sample formats, both digital samples and synthesized waveforms. IT files were widely used in the demoscene and tracker music community, particularly during late 1990s and early 2000s. 

## How to open IT file?

Impulse Tracker (Windows) can be used to open an IT file, however, since the software is no longer actively developed, there is a possibility that it may not be compatible with your operating system version and might not run as expected.

Here are few other options that can open IT file.

 - OpenMPT for Windows
 - Nullsoft Winamp for Windows
 - Schism Tracker
 - Audacity with third-party plugin

## How to convert an IT file?

OpenMPT and Schism Tracker are examples of programs that offer the capability to convert IT files into different file formats. e.g.

- [MP3](/audio/mp3/) - MP3 Audio File
- [OPUS](/audio/opus/) - Opus Audio File
- [MID](/audio/mid/) - MIDI File
- [WAV](/audio/wav/) - WAVE Audio File
- [OGG](/audio/ogg/) - Ogg Vorbis Audio File
- [FLAC](/audio/flac/) - Free Lossless Audio Codec File









